From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 39. Recorded live
Tuesday, October 2nd, 2012. This episode is
brought to you by Tellerik
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@telerik.com and
by Franklin star net training
developers to work smarter and
now offering gesture pack a
powerful gesture, recording and recognition
system for Microsoft connect for
windows developers details@gesturepak.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with Dez
humble and Martin Fowler about
continuous delivery. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I'm here in Denmark at
the GoTo conference and I'm
sitting down with Martin Fowler.
How are you, sir? And
good jazz. Humble. Just humble
has written the book on
continuous delivery along with David Farley.
How's it going? Great. Thanks
for hugging me. Is it
okay to say you've written
the book because you've written
a book, a short that
that works fine. I think
it's, it's somehow more impressive
to say you've written the,
have there been any other
books on continuous delivery? Not
specifically, no, I think this
is the first one. There's
a continuous integration book. That
was an earlier book in
my series, but that to
explore later on, that's not
quite the same thing. Okay.
Okay. So continuous delivery is
a really interesting topic because
it's, it's fun to say,
and it's a fun buzz
word and everyone everyone's bought
into the wisdom around continuous
integration. Obviously the next step
is to deliver stuff continuously.
And in the book, you
talk about a number of
different things around creating a
pipeline, a deployment pipeline, but
as someone who had done
similar things, while I hadn't
named them in 2005, 2006,
the thing that struck me
the most was that it
doesn't, it seem like it
is simply the will that
is required to do this
more than it is the
process. Yeah, I think that's
a various deep observation and
I think you're quite right.
None of this stuff is
really that new and it's
stuff that we were doing
in around the same time
periods and other people in
Silicon Valley were doing, you
know, the IVs of this
world, we're doing continuous deployment
around the same time. And
I think what was different
about those companies is like
you say that the will
and the need the necessity
to actually get stuff out
there quickly and get feedback
on it quickly. So it
kind of came from a
business imperative. And also just
from the fact it's so
frustrating to have to wait
for such a long time
for your code to get
out there. It's partly just
reducing misery or, you know,
the converse, which is improving
your, your happiness as a
developer. Yeah. I remember one
of my earlier involvements with
it was when I visited
Kent when he was working
in Switzerland in the late
nineties and they were doing
this insurance system for extremely
rich Swiss people. And they
were pushing to production every
night. And you know, they
did that for a year
and wants to have to
roll back and that was
kind of normal. But the
thing is that in that
environment, Kent was in this
really nice, small talk environment.
It was fairly straightforward to
go through it. I pushed
to production path through our
clients that pushed the production
path is as minefields and
dragons, some of which are
technical, but the really muscular
dragons, a human usually when
did pushing to production become
such a big deal. I
mean, in, in the early
nineties I was developing software
and I don't remember a
lot of fear around that
somewhere in the late nineties,
early two thousands, it became
scary to put something into
production. Is that a language
reason or a cultural reason?
I don't know. I feel
it's always been a big
deal, but the thing was
in the past, it was
only the thing you did
at the end of the
project. I mean it's two
years and then we go
to production. So yeah, it's
a big deal, but it's
got a different context. But
when you're saying to yourself,
well, we want to build
this software in tiny increments
of user valuable features every
few weeks. And as soon
as possible, put them into
production and then continue putting
stuff out, then it becomes
a whole big deal because
the process that's going to
be okay to do once
every two or three years
is not what you want
to be doing every week.
And I think the other
thing is that people naturally
equate released with deployment. You
think it's the same thing,
you know, we're gonna, we're
going to deploy to production.
And that's, that's when we
release our software. And I
think one of the things
that I've realized is actually
really important is to distinguish
between those two things. One
of the things that Facebook
talk about Chuck Ross, he
gives a talk where he
talks about how every major
feature in Facebook for the
next six months is already
in production. You just can't
see it yet. So they've
separated release and deployment. They're
deploying a once a day
or now twice a day,
I think a Facebook and
a production, but they have
a lot of the features
switched off or they, they
actually have a piece of
software called gatekeeper, which controls
who can see which features.
So a lot of those
features are only available internally.
And then they dial them
up to 1% of users
or everywhere. They have different
toggles for different people. So
they can say this feature
is available to everyone except
tech crunch editors, and actually
have a toggle for that.
And so That idea I'm
citing the login feature. I
think that would be nice
if tech crunch, I was
unable to, to use that
feature So they can control
a very fine grains rate.
Well, when features are released
to users, but that's completely
decoupled from deployment, that's a
completely separate activity. So it
was the addition of frequency
that made deployment a big
deal. I mean, it's okay
that deployment's happening at the
end of two years because
we're releasing software, we've been
working for two years, there'll
be some manual steps. You
know, why would we automate
something that was done once,
right? And then suddenly we're
releasing and, or deploying, you
know, once a week, once
a month, once a quarter,
once a scrum, however you
want to phrase it. It
seems to me like it's
a natural computer science thing
too, if you, if you
do something twice automated, but
today in 2012, there are
still people who are dragging
their websites from a folder
into a FTP program. And
the thing I don't understand
is the second time they
do that, some alarm doesn't
go off in their head
that said stop. That should
be a script. Right? Absolutely.
And I think what, what,
what you saw is that
it was a web companies
who started doing, I mean,
I was thinking as deployment
in 2000 when I was
FTP ING files from my
workstation directly into production, which
is not something I'd recommend
now necessarily. But I think,
you know, w flicker were
really the people who most
visibly pioneered this back in
2009, when they gave a
talk at velocity about dev
ops cooperation. And, and they
just calmly said, Oh yeah,
we're deploying 10 times a
day into production. It was
just the way they started
off doing it because it
made sense to them. I
think another thing that's made
a big impact here is
the testing culture. You know,
when I think of, when
I kind of started in
this game, testing was something
you didn't even think about
doing until you'd finished coding.
And the idea that we
do contesting continuously as part
of development, I think also
makes a good bit of
this more possible because you
begin to realize, well, the
code can be completely tested.
Even if we are building
in increments of once a
week, we don't have to
kind of go through a
phase to make it good
enough to deploy given the
amount of computing power that
we have available to us,
whether it be on our
laptops and desktops or whether
it be in the cloud.
Is there really anything we
shouldn't be doing continuously? No,
I don't think so. I
mean, I, we talk about
continuous testing and that applies
to, to exploratory testing and
usability testing as well. We
should be doing usability testing
continuously. People talk about doing
code reviews. And one thing
that I often say is
that pairing is continuous code
review. So I think, you
know, continuous feedback getting features
out to users and small
iterations of features, this whole
idea of the lean startup
that you come up with,
an idea, work out what
the smallest possible amount of
what you can do to
test the idea is get
that small incremental out there,
get data back continuously to
getting feedback from our users.
I think, you know, it's
a very widely applicable concept.
Yeah. I never ever say
never. So there's probably some
cases somewhere, but I think
what we've done now is
flipped the default, the default
now is continuously, and that
has a lot of consequences.
I remember a conversation I
had once with a guy
who was very big in
the SOA world. And he
was calling me up, talking
about patterns and stuff and
saying, well, it's really important
with services that you have
the, because it's so hard
to change the contracts of
these services. You have to
really nail them down and
get them right before you
actually put the services deployed.
And it really struck me
at that point on how
my worldview and this goes
worldview. We're at complete odds
because I'm always, how do
we make it easy to
change, how we can make
this continuous movement going on?
That's just my default way
of thinking now. And I
think that's the, the shift
is more and more people
are beginning to think of
this idea of continuous change
as a default. It goes
all the way through the
life cycle. So people are
doing continuous design UX. People
are thinking about how they
can continuously iterate their designs
in response to user feedback
and even business people are
thinking about. And I think
that's a really radical change
in this, not necessarily the
technical change, but the interface
between business ideas and it,
and your users is changing
that whole relationship. Instead of,
you know, someone once said
that our job as developers
is to take business ideas
and turn them into measurable
customer outcomes, which I think
is a brilliant phrase. And
I think if you're doing
continuous delivery, what it means
is instead of the business
coming up with, you know,
six month bunch of requirements
and throwing it over the
wall, instead it is saying,
what should we try next?
And the business people are
coming up with ideas. How
do we test that? Let's
run this test and get
the, and get the information
back. And then what should
we try next? You're always
asking what ideas should we
try next? And that fundamentally
changes the relationship between all
the people involved in building
software systems. I think that
changes there changes everything. The
idea of actual metrics. It's
surprising that as software developers,
we spend so much time
doing micro benchmarks of string
libraries, but so little time
AB testing on whether or
not this button converts to
that button. For some reason,
micro benchmarks are really exciting,
but we forget as engineers
that we're not just writing
it to be fast or
to be fun, but we're
trying to support a business.
So, so, so rarely I
hear people utilizing techniques like
continuous delivery to make more
money for the business. And
they don't get excited about
those benchmarks. Like we made
this button green and 20%
more people gave us money,
like other than Amazon, who
else does that? Yeah. And
I think this is a
deeper cultural issue that comes
in a lot of the
time we tend to the
habit seems to be everywhere
to treat developers and real
people as completely separate islands.
We mustn't have developers talking
to the business. People directly,
developers are only interested in
the technical stuff and like
many things, there's some truth
in that a lot of
developer people do get overly
interested in the technical side
to the detriment of the
rest of the picture, but
it's something that's reinforced and
encouraged time and time again.
And one of the key
things, right from the beginning
of, of my involvement in
the agile community in Kent
with the XP was we
really want to break that
and get people coming together.
So that it's actually not
just business people who are
coming up with ideas for
how to improve a software
product. It could be the
developers. And as a result,
the ideas can come from
anywhere. And I think this
is going to be increasingly
the case now, as we
get to do all the
verse big data stuff, because
a Lot of things are
in the developers can come
up with things that business
people aren't even gonna think
to ask for and are
sometimes remarkably simple things. And
it's really important, therefore, to
increase that level of collaboration.
And I think there's a
virtuous cycle here. I think
part of the reason that
developers are more interested in
the technical side and the
business side is if they
have to wait a month
or six months for their
stuff to go live, that
feedback loops so slow. It's
really hard to be interested
in it. Whereas if you're
deploying and seeing the effects
of that, that actually becomes
really interesting to you as
a developer. And it encourages
developers to think a lot
more about that stuff. And
so that virtuous and you
see that in organizations that
are doing this, developers become
much more focused on running
these kinds of experiments next
exciting for them. And that
enables much more cross functional
behavior and developers being much
more engaged in the business
side. So that's interesting because
I've always made with all
jokes. There is truth. And
I've always said that one
of the things that drives
developers is a selfishness to
work on the things that
they want to work on
and laziness the very best
developers are truly, truly lazy.
And, you know, anytime I
see myself doing something more
than once I try to
automate it. So what you're
describing in very kind of,
I would even go so
far as to say suit
friendly terms. Like it's a
virtual cycle that supports the
business really as a developer,
I'm hearing about it's okay
to laugh. I hear you
guys laughing, but you're not.
It's just full of jet.
It's just the thought of
jazz, a suit friendly. Well,
you're not seeing how he's
dressed on the radio. I'm
not wearing a suit, but
he does have pants though.
And that's where that's very
lucky for us, but you
know, you're English, but you're,
you're, you're saying, you know,
virtuous cycle support the business.
But really what you're saying
is we finally set up
a system that will make
lazy developers work on those
things that they shellfish they
want to work on. Yeah.
And some people have been
experimenting very forceful in his
idea. There's an ex colleague
of ours, Fred George who's
who's. I think you can
find some of his talks
on info Q and the
like, and he, the company
he's associated with, they try
very much to set broad
business metrics and then say
to developers, do whatever you
like, just improve these metrics.
And he's claim is it
really does engage and get
people going now who knows
what the full reality is
that though. But I think
the promise is really quite
interesting. This episode of Hansel
minutes is brought to you
by careers 2.0 and our
friends at stack overflow. If
you're not familiar with careers,
2.0, it's the job site
within stack overflow that helps
you advance your career as
a programmer and host a
portfolio of all your work.
You can search through job
listings or create a profile
to show off the work
you've done. And let employers
find you careers. 2.0, lets
you showcase real coding samples
by importing answers that you've
posted on stack overflow, open
source contributions from GitHub Bitbucket,
and SourceForge were blog posts.
You've written. Even if you're
not currently looking a job,
your profile can still serve
as a terrific representation of
all your programming knowledge, but
don't worry. Unlike other sites,
you won't get spammed by
recruiters. You'll only find qualified
employers here. Careers. 2.0 profiles
are also invite only. So
the community stays top-notch and
as an exclusive offer to
Hansel minutes, listeners stack overflow
wants to help you jumpstart
your job search the first
200 people to sign up
for a careers. 2.0 profile
will receive a limited edition
stack overflow branded padfolio. So
head on over to careers
dot stack overflow.com/h M that's
careers dot stack overflow.com/h M.
Sign up today. Just make
sure that you include your
mailing address so you can
receive your free gift. Once
again, that's careers dot stack,
overflow.com/h M. One of the
things that you comment on
the book is the importance
of a delivery team that
is from multiple disciplines, but
is focused on, on one
thing. You don't just say,
have a build guy. You,
you almost have like a
council of deployment and you've
got a database person and
an ops person. And they
all work as a team.
That seems a little bit
difficult though, because you're basically
using kind of like aspect
orientation and you're slicing through
the organization and you're saying
we all have to agree.
This is important. So everyone
needs to agree and then
send a representative and then
do whatever it takes to
remove that, that friction. Yeah.
One of our principles in
the book is that everyone
is responsible for delivery. That's
one of our kind of
top eight principles that we
talk about. And I think
that's, that's very important. Part
of the problem w part
of the root cause of
this problem is the fact
that developers don't consider themselves
responsible for what happens in
production. And that means they
write crappy code that doesn't
actually work in production. And
I think a big part
of this is aligning responsibility
with the power to actually
change things. You know, if
the developer, if the operations
people are getting it in
the neck all the time,
when the site goes down
with the developers don't feel
any pain, people don't change
unless they feel pain. You
know, obviously there's the carrot
and the stick and, you
know, but I think a
big part of it is
saying, well, we're all responsible
for this. And if you
make developers carry pagers and
they get called out when
the site goes down, that
tends to encourage them very
effectively to write much more
production ready systems in, in,
in, in my experience. I
think the other thing that
is important is to say
that if you look at
the way that companies are
organized, that a lot of
them are divided according to
functional silos. That makes sense
when you have these really
long delivery cycles and you're
working in big batches, because
you can optimize for individual
silos, individual functional silos, doing
their part very well. When
you move to a process
where you're optimizing for cycle
time or lead time. In
fact, I should say time
from idea to realize business
value in production. The way
to do that really effectively
is to reduce batch size.
And when you're reducing batch
size, it's just wildly inefficient
to have functional silos and
handoffs. And so the only
way really to effectively optimize
for lead time is to
have cross functional teams and
focus on how do we
get stories from start to
finish as fast as possible
and, and many interesting consequences
follow when you actually change
your process in that way.
Yeah. It's been one of
the long running questions for,
for quite a while, but
should we organize organizations by
sort of the activity and
skill that you do, or
should it be organized in
terms of some more domain
business outcome? And we find
it in people and also
we find it in code.
Should we organize our codes
major divisions by database versus
UI or, or should we
make it in terms of
more functional pieces? I've always
gone for the latter because
that focuses everybody's mind on
some useful business or domain
purpose. And I think that's
the way you want to
orient everybody. Now it does
have this advantages. It does
mean that you get a
less, less fertilization of ideas
within a particular skill group.
It also means you may
have to have some limited
utilization. I mean, you only
really need a database guy
half the time, but you
want him full time on
the team because you can't
afford him flashing between two
teams. But again, I think
that this is also the,
the thinking that comes out
of the lean thinking. It's
better to have Slack in
the system and under underutilized
resources in order to do
that cycle time. And I
just did the most evil
thing in the world. I
just referred to a human
being as resource Naughty Martin.
Bye bye. A round of
drinks later on, I think
for that. But I think
this is one of the
things that's very important is
you ha you have to,
and in fact, you can
prove from Q theory that
when you optimize for lead
time, you, you, you sub
optimize for utilization. And one
of the problems with traditional
project management theories, which work
on cost accounting and optimize
for utilization, that creates the
most inefficient process you possibly
can for actually getting software
from idea to production. And
so we have to change
our mindset about this and
Slack time is really important.
Those people who aren't working
on features, they're the people
who are keeping the system
working and, you know, for,
for, for the one line
definition of continuous delivery, it
is prioritize keeping the system
working overdoing work, and to
keep the system working. You
need people who are working
on things like making the
automated tests more efficient or
automating the deployment process or
simplifying the deployment process so
that we can automate it
efficiently or working on how
we do the infrastructure management.
You need Slack in the
system to be able to
do those things, to keep
the process efficient. When I,
when I go and visit
customers and talk to customers
and explain to them, you
know, you need to think
about unit testing, or you
need to think about continuous
integration, which, which a lot
of us take for granted,
but I don't think a
lot of us realized that
the vast number of kind
of dark matter developers are
just barely keeping their heads
above water, much less thinking
about having Slack time to
go off and, and put
together a system. I mean,
How do you tell the
chief architect and the Nebraska
department of forestry that, you
know, his system would be
more effective if he could
just take a week off
and put, put in continuous
integration when he's just trying
to like, keep the system
running? Yeah, it's, it's a
difficult problem. And I think
firstly, you have to just
provide people real examples of
how this has worked in
practice. And I think a
big part of what we
do is just letting people
know that there is a
better way to do things
and that it is possible
to do things differently and
that it can actually work.
And I think that the
key ingredient of changes, people
have to be interested in
getting better at what they
do, But, but let me
interrupt. But a lot of
people say, well, that's great
for you jazz. You know,
you use Ruby or fancy
language dot 2.0 or that's,
that's great for you, Martin
you're Martin Fowler, but I
work in Microsoft access or
I'm still doing stuff in
clipper. You know, it's just
simply not possible to automate
problem X, I think often
that is just in people's
heads and some of the
great advances that have been
made in computer science. So
when people have solved problems
that other people thought were
impossible, just because they didn't
know they were impossible. So
there was a talk yesterday
by Brian control, where he
kind of gave an example
of someone who there was
an, a new hire in
the company. And they said,
go and write a parser
for this particular thing. And
everyone knew it was impossible.
And then they forgot about
this guy. And he came
back two months later and
said, Oh, I've done it.
And they said, but, but
that's impossible. And he did
it because he didn't realize
it was impossible. And there's
a story from Xerox park,
which is similar about the
kind of window retrial. Well,
that's how you end it.
That's another way to really
get programmers moving. And I
know this because that's how
my wife gets me moving
is she just makes the
declaration that it's not possible
for this to be done
this way. And then of
course I can't sleep. I
can't eat. I'm thinking about
it in the shower, you
know, until it, until it
happens. The system that I
mentioned that I was working
on in 2005, 2006 was
a banking system. And banking
is historically a very kind
of waterfall kind of a
world. And for us, it
went from waterfall to Scrummerfall,
right. You know, where we
think we're doing scrum, but
we're really just iterating ourselves
down the waterfall. But one
of the things that we
really did a great job
of is we introduced continuous
integration into a number of
large United States banks to the
point where we would do
a commit and a complete
virtual machine with a runnable
system would pop out the
other end because the business
problem that we were trying
to solve, wasn't shipping the
banking software because that really
only did happen once or
twice a year. It was
actually shipping a complete demonstration
bank to a salesperson sales
guy needed a new version
of the system every month.
And he was ending up
getting one every year. How
is he going to go
and sell that if he
only gets to every year?
So we optimized our delivery
system to deliver tiny Northwind
bank in a virtual machine.
And the, and then the
way That we finally got
past that final hurdle, which
was, which was automation, we
didn't realize that VMware had
an automation interface. And once
we figured it out, we
were like, Oh, well now
we can actually just fire
up that base image. And
in the book you talk
about really going from bare
metal all the way up.
You want to not just
check your software into source
code control, but what do
you mean by checking the
entire system? So it should
be, why don't you talk
about your, your test for,
for data center integrity? Oh,
the one by a you're
prepared to let me in,
you turn up with chainsaws
and explosives and water pistols
and go at your data
center and we time how
long it is for you
to come back live again.
Yeah. That one, right? So
this is, this is Martins
test of your operations readiness.
So it should be possible
for you to do that
and for you to say,
okay, well, no problem. I
can bring up a completely
working system from scratch using
what's in version control, plus
a bunch of scripts that
that should be possible. And
that has obviously utility in
the case of business continuity
and disaster recovery, whatever you
want to call it. But
it's also really important in
terms of actually producing, working
a working system that if
you're going to test, if
you're gonna produce production, like
test environments, a lot of
the problems we see in
organizations is where it takes
a week to bring up
a test environment. And then
there's tickets going back and
forth between the infrastructure people
in the testers and the
developers. And we say, well,
no, that's ridiculous. You should
be able to do that
in a push button way.
How do you do that
while you have declarative, the
D declared state of your
infrastructure in version control and
you know, tools like puppet
and chef allow you to
instantiate those environments using fully
automated processes. And One thing
I do want to throw
in, in this discussion, because
I think we have to
throw it in. Whenever we
talk about this topic is
we make this slightly annoying
distinction between continuous delivery and
continuous deployment, which is very
important. We've talked when we
talk about this stuff, we
usually talk about cases where
typical like websites like Facebook
or flicker, and they nail
deploying into production multiple times
a day. But continuous delivery
is broader than that. Even
if you could only deploy
once, if you could only
deploy into production once a
year, like when Jaz was
managing our go tool and
its shrink wrap software, and
you could only send it
out every so often, you
can still do continuous delivery.
The test is that the
software should always be ready
to be able to deploy
to production, and that you
make the decision to deploy,
to production purely a business
decision, not a technical decision
that many of our clients,
I would say most of
our clients tend to deploy
into production every one to
two weeks. But the point
of using continuous delivery is
that you're always ready. There's
an interesting book coming out
in a couple of months,
which is by the HP
firmware team. And they moved
to a continuous delivery process.
And obviously HP firmware, you
know, it doesn't get released
very often, but what they
found was they had a
different branch for every HP
printer and it, they worked
out activity and only 5%
of their time was actually
building features. The rest of
the time is they just
sending 25% of their time
merging between branches. And so
they rearchitected their systems. So
they built the entire firmware
on trunk and the firma
would actually detect what printer
it was running on and
turn features on and off
accordingly. But they, they moved
to a trunk based development
system. They built continuous integration.
This is a C plus
plus code base, a large
C plus plus code base.
And they wrote automated tests
that ran in a virtual
machine. And then on logic
boards to prove that the
firmer would actually work, they
had 30,000 automated tests. And
if you're checking broke, some
of those tests, it was
automatically reverted from version control.
They moved to continuous delivery
and it made a huge
difference to their process. They
were able to get 40%
of their time spent on
features rather than 5%. So
it sounds like there's two
interesting things that happen there.
One that someone identified that
there was a problem right
there that in 25% of
their time is going just
wasted, just using one of
my favorite software engineering terms,
yak, shaving, right? They're not
actually doing any software delivery.
They're just shaving the yak
because it's part of the
process. And then the will,
the business will to actually
make that happen that you
say though, out of, kind
of one side of your
mouth, that we should be
delivering on a regular basis.
We should always have a
system that is deliverable. But
then here you just give
an example, right, right. After
that, where they rip the
guts out of an entire
system and put the guts
back in there must have
been a time when that
software was not deliverable. So
how do you deal with
complete system refactorings and you
know, reimaginings of systems while
also maintaining a deliverable system?
So I think in the
case of, of HP, I
mean, this was in 2008,
before the book came out,
they were doing continuous delivery
and, you know, they didn't
know what it was called,
but they did it anyway.
And they rewrote the architecture
from scratch. Now that's not
something we'd always recommend. What
we do have is a
pattern, which we've used a
bunch of times, which is
kind of a slightly crappy
name of branch by abstraction.
And the idea is this,
you want to make a
large scale change to your
system. What you want to
do is find a seam
above that layer, say an
abstraction layer, and you have
the existing implementation and you
create a new implementation side
by side, and that's checked
into version control. And you
just use polymorphism. You substitute
one object for another object,
and you do that using
a toggle, which could be
at bill time or runtime.
So for example, a software
that I used to work
on, go, we were moving
from, I bought this to
hibernate in the backend. And
what we did is we,
we had the repository pattern,
which was a layer over
the database access. So that
was transparent to the, to
the system. And we created
a new object, which implemented
the same interface. And we
started implementing hibernate calls for
that. And we did it
on a, as a feature
was played, as a story
was played that required a
change to the backend. We
would make those changes by
porting over to hibernate, but
we had both of those,
you know, some calls would
go to hibernate and some
calls or gateway parties, and
gradually would move methods over
from being implemented in. I
bought this to hibernate, but
trunk was still releasable. And
so you're making large scale
architectural changes at the same
time. On the front end,
we were moving from a
velocity based stack to a
J Ruby on rails base
stack. And we did that
basically using the same process.
You'd have some, your eyes
would go slash new slash
and then the page name.
And that would go through
the J Ruby on rails,
stack other calls or go
to the, to the velocity
stack. And it was the
same HTML and CSS. So
it looked identical. It was
just going through a completely
different code path. And the
only way you would know
whether you, the page you
were on was day Ruby
on rails or velocity was
by looking at the URI
and seeing if that new
was in there. So even
though the system was deliverable
at any time, it doesn't
necessarily mean you would deliverable
deliver it in this kind
of middle Frankenstein's monster. We
did. We kept releasing. You
actually did, even in that
state. Oh, so I mean,
that, that was, we had
to do it because we
were going to make this
large change and we realized,
well, if we do this
completely, it's going to take
us a year and we
can't do that. We have
to release a software. So
that's really interesting to me,
cause I've, I've sat down
with lots of different people
and they've talked about what
we're going to move from
X, Trent technology to Y
technology. And there's always that
feeling that a hybrid is
a dirty word. You know,
I, in, in the asp.net
world where I live, someone
might be going from web
forums over to MVC and
they would never think of
releasing something that was both.
But I think your point
is that, well, the URL
is fine and the HTML
is fine, but most importantly,
the functionality is fine. Why
not release a hybrid? Exactly.
I mean, it's sometimes it's
very difficult to do depending
on what your technology basis,
but if you can, then
it comes down to, it
should be a business decision.
And a lot of the
time it says, yeah, the
mate, you may be in
the middle of a major
shift, but we need still,
we need to release. So
we should, I think that
it's important to point out
all that stuff was tested.
So we're writing unit tests
for all that code. We
had acceptance tests that were
running through web driver to
make sure that all that
stuff was working. So all
that code was tested and,
and we've definitely prioritized that
very, very, very strongly. That's
very important to us. Right.
But I mean, you say
it it's dirty. I mean,
I guess  yeah, absolutely.
But for us it was,
you know, it was more
important. It was dirtier to
us to be in a
state where we couldn't release
for a year. I mean,
that for me is basic
hygiene. That's really interesting. And
your, your point about these
kinds of these quality Gates,
cause you talk in the
book about setting up a
pipeline and even, you know,
even spikes and even crazy
new refactorings should still be
moving their way through the
pipeline. Someone doesn't just go
off in a room, close
the door, design the new
system and then bring it
down from the mountain. Here
is the new system. No,
I think I would say
it's okay to go out
and try crazy new ideas.
Those never get checked into
trunk. I mean, you can
go and create a branch
and run a bunch of
ideas, but the crucial thing
is those get thrown away.
The output of that process
is knowledge, which you then
go to use and actually
write the real code. But
yeah, you know, any of
those things, any big architectural
changes you, any big features
that you're writing, all that
stuffs are going to trunk
and all that stuff should
be tested an easily or
normal price of doing that.
You just use goods, objects,
principles to make sure that
that stuff doesn't get run
a runtime. And that it's
well encapsulated. You know, you
follow all the usual architectural
principles. And if you, I
mean, if you can do
this stuff, that for me
is a sign, the, or
architecture is actually good that
you've practiced, you know, good
object oriented design that you
have nice separation of concerns
that you have a properly
componentized architectures when people find
this difficult it's normally because
they've got a horrible monolithic
ball of mud. And in
that, you know, in that
situation, you know, this is
just one of the problems
that your experience is that
they will be hard to
do continuous delivery. Yeah. I
think it's a good test
for a design of a
system is have you thought
about how it can be
gracefully and gradually replaced? And
we should all be thinking
about the death of our
systems from the early earliest
days. Very cool. Well, thanks
guys for chatting with me
today, the book is called
continuous delivery, reliable software releases
through build test and deployment
automation. And it's by jazz
humble and also David Farley. And
this is part of the
Addison Wesley signature series of
which you are the series
editor. Indeed I am. And
I've been very fortunate to
have these books, although I
am annoyed that this is
yet another book that this
William jolt award and I've
only ever come second. And
on that bitter note, I
thank you guys, both just
humble and Martin Fowler for
chatting with me today here
at GotU. Thanks for having
us. Thanks. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.